well hey everyone welcome to my youtube
channel my name is wade patterson and i
am passionate about impactful
communication i'm passionate about
toastmasters all of those things and if
this is your first time landing on my
channel or maybe you've watched a few
videos but you haven't hit that
subscribe button please subscribe turn
on notifications i would really
appreciate it if you followed me along
on this journey of trying to be a better
communicator myself but also help others
be better communicators as well because
communication is such a big important
part of life whether it's personal life
or business life communication is
essential therefore these videos this
content is helping you be a more
impactful communicator
today i'm going to talk about the
underdog of public speaking skills and
that is vocal variety
i say it's the underdog because often
body language gets so much attention in
terms of a great public speech
but vocal variety when used well is
truly that ingredient that i think takes
a speech from a good speech to a great
speech so you may be wondering what is
vocal variety i'll tell you what vocal
variety is not if you have ever watched
a speaker who perhaps they read off a
piece of paper perhaps they don't but
they talk like this and they say that
they're very excited to be giving the
speech and they couldn't be anywhere
else in the world then right here that
it's just the best feeling right now to
be giving this speech and thank you so
much for attending an uh
so boring it's so boring that monotone
sound and we've all heard speakers like
that and it's not pleasant to listen to
instead you want to
have changes in the way that you talk in
the volume all of those sorts of things
that is what vocal variety is and in
this video i'm going to give you a
couple specifics of how you can take
your vocal variety to the next level the
first tip for this is probably the most
obvious and that is turn up the volume
when you have an exciting part of your
speech or something that you really want
to tell people about you can speak
louder and have that little spike that
goes higher than the average decibel
level i guess you could say of the rest
of the speech
this does a couple of things one it adds
some texture to your speech it adds that
variety in it's pleasant to listen to
but another underrated skill here is
that it captures or recaptures the
audience's attention we have short
attention spans i've heard statistics
like humans attention spans are shorter
than a goldfish i don't know if that's
completely accurate however our
attention spans are not long and if
you're sitting through a five six seven
minute speech it is very easy for your
mind as an audience member to wander off
and think about something else what
vocal variety does specifically turning
up the volume
is it spikes the adrenaline of the
audience it catches them off guard
and it reconnects them to that speech it
reminds them to focus again to pay
attention and it keeps them engaged if
you can do that periodically throughout
the speech when it's warranted when it
makes sense to do so
that is the perfect thing to incorporate
into your speech think about times when
the speech is exciting where somebody
laughed where somebody yelled these are
opportunities to turn up the volume what
is an equally effective skill but is
talked about way less is the opposite
it's turning down
the volume
this is such a powerful skill that is
way less utilized by public speakers
because
it adds an element of vulnerability
it's difficult to bring your voice way
down
and speak directly to your audience
this is an element that could be used in
a sad story or a serious conversation if
you're talking about a tough subject
and you need the audience to clue into
how
powerful
this is the subject matter and why they
need to pay attention rather than
shouting it at them
you can bring down your voice
and it will have the same effect people
will notice that change in the decibel
level
but the fact it's down is more serious
and it draws them in
this is a tip for advanced speakers or
speakers who have been going to
toastmasters maybe for a little while or
whether you're going to toastmasters or
not this is a tool that can help you
really raise your game and an audience
will remember when you turned down the
volume to get their attention and i want
to end this video with an advanced tip
and this is really something that is
next level it's not for everyone
i've only done this in very specific
ways but one of my favorite speeches
ever incorporates this element and that
is doing something
different
than normal speech with vocal variety
here's what i mean there are examples of
speeches that have started with somebody
singing a song
talk about a way to capture an
audience's attention
you don't start with the standard hi
there everyone my name is wade patterson
and i'm going to deliver the speech no
if i came out singing
that would capture people's attention i
won't do that for all of your benefit
that would be a horrible thing to
experience however if you have that
skill set that you are a great singer
consider incorporating singing in a
really big speech that you're giving
it's something that's going to take a
lot of risk a lot of vulnerability
but it's high risk high reward if you're
able to deliver on that that again is
what
sets a great speech apart from a next
level hall of fame phenomenal speech
it's that type of ingredient if you're
not a singer that's okay perhaps you can
include poetry one of my favorite
speeches is by somebody named sarah k
who gave a ted talk feel free after this
video to youtube
her ted talk she started out with with
basically spoken word poetry for about
three minutes
and as soon as she was done
the whole audience
stood on their feet i've never seen that
level of appreciation from a ted talk i
think it's one of the greatest ted talks
ever
and it's something that is different
whether it's poetry whether it's singing
whether it's yelling right out of the
gate whether it's whispering by adding
in an element that is completely
different than what we're used to
hearing from a speech perspective
you
are going to be risking it it's going to
be
taking a chance but if you deliver on it
it is going to be one of the most
powerful speeches probably most of your
audience members have ever sat through i
hope this video on vocal variety has
been helpful for you if it has please
subscribe to my channel i'd really
appreciate it did i miss any tips about
vocal variety let me know in the
comments if the video was helpful let me
know in the comments give it a like
thank you so much for watching this
video i really appreciate it and i hope
you have a great day